>> Jen Kramer: The next thing we're
gonna talk about is chapter four.
Chapter four, we're going to start
applying custom properties and
calc to an example, a bunch of code
that I actually had in the previous
course on grids and flex box,
here at Frontend Masters.
So what we're going to do here is I'm
gonna walk you through real slowly,
we're going to talk through all
the logic about how we're gonna apply
custom properties in calc
to refactor this code.
Then we're gonna take what we learn
here from this little example, and
we're gonna apply it to the homepage and
start working on code for that.
And then you are gonna get to
work on the inside page for that.
So that's the sort of arc of the next few
things that we're going to be doing here.
So to get started with chapter
four in your exercise files,
go ahead and look in the chapter four.
Look in the instructions,
it will give you the starting code
pen which is here upon the board.
So you'll see here that we have some
pretty basic, sort of HTML going on here.
We have a div around the whole thing,
a div with a class of
rubber cuz we often do, and
then inside of this you'll see I've got
some comments telling you what's going on.
So here's row one with
four individual boxes.
You'll see we have a div with the class
of row, and then we have article, okay.
And it's got some stuff, right.
And the code just sort of goes on and
on and on like that.
I'm gonna just show this to
you in full page view just so
you can remember what this looks like.
This is a prototype of a four
column grid system and
we were talking about pie
in the previous course.
So we've got a lot of pie going on
here and you can see we have our four
columns here underneath of that we have
a two and two, we have a one and a three,
we have a four going across, and then
down at the bottom is a one, two, one.
If we start to narrow down the screen,
shockingly,
things will start to rearrange.
So there's our one, two, one, is now two
going across with the ones underneath.
We've got some things stacked on
top of each other a couple places.
And then when we narrow
up the screen again.
I'm sure you're all shocked to know that
they're all just sort of stuck on top of
each other, okay?
So that's the basic code that we
have going on here at the moment.
And when we're done here,
the screen will look exactly the same.
Don't you love working
on a code like that?
[LAUGH] It's gonna be exactly the same.
But we are going to spend a lot of time
refactoring what we've already written.
So I'm just gonna sort of hind
the picture down here at the bottom,
just so
we can focus on the code part of this.
Just so you can understand the math behind
this because one of the things that's not
documented here is the math and
how the math actually works out.
You can see I've got some of these
numbers here like 92%, there's a 4% here.
20, 44, 68,
where does that stuff come from?
You might be wondering how do we
arrive arrive at those numbers?
So let me go ahead and show you that.
>> Jen Kramer: So if you were to
draw out the four boxes here, right?
So if we had a row of four boxes,
it's one box per column, right?
Each of these is gonna be 20% wide,
so there they are, each 20% wide.
We've got four percent margin to
the left to the each of these boxes, and
if you do all of that math,
two four six eight, yeah?
And then 4 times 5 is 20, so
that our depth 200%, yeah?
Everybody good so far?
So If I put two things together here,
right?
So put together these two,
what does that wind up becoming?
>> Jen Kramer: How wide
is each of those boxes?
>> Speaker 2: 44.
>> Jen Kramer: 44, right?
Because it's 20 plus 20 plus 4.
If I put three of them together?
we wind up with 20 plus 20 plus 20,
which is 60.
Plus 4 plus 4 which is 8,
so 68, all right?
Everybody clear where these
numbers are coming from?
So that not totally random.
Okay so now what we're gonna do
is we're gonna start to rewrite
this such that we're gonna leverage
our calc and we're gonna leverage
our custom properties here.
So I'm going to start rewriting this
at the very top of this document.
Remember I said one of the things that we
want to do with calc and custom properties
is we want to put our logic at the top
where the mobile is located and then in
the media queries, we're just going
to change the value of our variables.
So that's exactly what
we're going to do here.
So here at the top, we have our row, okay,
display flex row wrap,
that's going to stay the same.
But rather than using this 4%
margin thing that I have going on,
I'm actually going to change
this to justify content,
space, between, okay?
So I'm going to let flex box actually
manage its own space and you'll see why,
you'll just have to take my word on this,
it's going to work out great, okay.
So remember, space between means what?
>> Speaker 3: Spaced evenly except for
the two [INAUDIBLE] on the end.
>> Jen Kramer: Right, not on the ends, but
between the various boxes on the page,
okay?
And then so if I was going to go ahead and
start working on my math.
All right, for
that first row I had four boxes, right?
And I told you it was
a four column layout, true?
So I could have a width of of one
sort of call it a width of one, and
a width the one, and a width of one, and
a with the ones were like four units
if we thought about it that way.
Does that kinda sort of make sense to you?
Okay, so if some number of columns and
we have some number of boxes,
basically in terms of how this
is gonna fit together, and
those are gonna be important to us and
doing our math.
So I'm gonna start by here on my row,
just to show you that we can
declare variables wherever we want.
Remember, we're scoping them.
So it has to be now a child of row
in order to leverage this variable.
I'm gonna make my columns to be 4, okay?
Cuz this is a four column layout,
so there's 4.
All right, now here, everybody clear on
what this little selector means here?
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, new to some of you.
So those angle brackets, anytime you
see those angle brackets in your code,
that is an indicator that
this is attribute selector.
So in other words we're
working with HTML attributes.
So what's an HTML attribute?
Give me an example of one.
>> Speaker 4: Class or ID?
>> Jen Kramer: Class or ID,
give me one that is not CSS.
>> Speaker 5: A truff.
>> Jen Kramer: A truff, right?
A truff will be an example
of an attribute, so
it's those not the tag itself, but the
other are supporting things, yeah, okay?
So here we are saying, for a class,
that somewhere inside of it,
that's the star equals has
the string call hyphen.
And it just so happens to be that all of
my column classes here all start with
call hyphen, cool.
So I can just uniformly select
all of them with that selector.
Very nice, okay?
So right now, this is the mobile layout.
So this flex number here,
this is the shorthand.
Remember, for flex grow, for
flex shrink, and flex basis, okay.
So, grow zero, shrink zero,
flex basis is 92%.
And we have a margin
of zero on the top and
bottom, four on the left and
right, make sense?
Okay, so that's going away, bye bye.
[LAUGH] So glad to have you,
but see you later.
What I'm gonna do here is
let's just do a quick analysis
of what's gonna happen here.
Basically, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to say I have some number of boxes.
I have some number of columns and
that's gonna determine my width, right?
Boxes divided by the number of columns,
so if I have four boxes and
I have four columns if you divide
four by four you get one, right?
Multiply that by 100%, we have one great,
big huge box occupying the row.
Does that kind of make sense?
Okay, all right, the math for
you so you can see it.
So I'm gonna set up
a variable here called width.
And I'm gonna give it a with
the four because we're in mobile,
everything is going to
stack on top of each other.
So every box is going to
be four boxes wide, right?
Okay, and so
then I'll set up a variable here.
I'm gonna call it initial basis.
And I'm gonna say that we have calc.
And we're gonna calculate
a variable called width, right?
>> Jen Kramer: And we're gonna divide
that by a variable called columns.
>> Jen Kramer: So
that's gonna give us 4 divided by 4, true.
That gives us a value of 1.
Is 1 helpful to us?
Probably not.
It would be better if it was
in a percent format, yeah?
Okay, so let's multiple it also by a 100%.
>> Jen Kramer: And so my initial
basis is just gonna be a 100%, okay.
Then we actually needed to
display this on the page, so
we could display this as our flex basis.
So now we needed to clear our flex basis
and that's simply going to be what?
The variable of the initial basis.
>> Jen Kramer: If you want it to
still say flex, you could say,
simply you could say flex.
Flex, and in that case it would be 00.
And then the variable of initial basis,
right, that would be
the same kind of thing.
If you wanted to write it that way,
whichever way you want
to write it is fine.
To keep it clear,
I'm gonna write it this way, cuz we're
really just dealing with the flux basis.